# README

## Setup

### Requirements

Project depdencies are listed in the `requirements.txt` file at the project's
root structure.

```sh
# From ./backend/

pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Configuration

Rosalution uses Environment variables for configuring the application at the time
of startup.

- **MONGODB_HOST** Sets the host or host:port for the server host address for MongoDB.
    (default) rosalution-db
      - The default is the docker-compose name for the service, so inside other docker containers within the same network,
      the docker-compose name will resolve to that service
- **MONGODB_DB** Sets the database name to connect to at startup time
    (default) rosalution_db

## Linting

This project uses `pylint` as a linting tool.

Running the linter:

```bash
# From ./backend/

pylint src tests
```

## Formatting

Rosalution uses `yapf` to format the python codebase.  Configuration is maintained in `.style.yapf` within the
`./backend` directory.

To recursively format all Python files in place, run the following

```bash
# From ./backend/

yapf -ir .
```

## Running

### Local Deployment

From the `src` folder:

```bash
# From project source folder: ./src

uvicorn main:app --reload
```

Now go to `localhost:port` in a web browser.

## Docker

To run the backend service in a docker container.

### Local Development Build

```bash
# From the base project folder: /backend

docker system prune -a --volumes

docker build --target="development-stage" --tag="backend" -f "./Dockerfile" ./

docker images

# Grab the id from the container that was built for backend
# Also, the docker run command seems to want the full path to the rosalution folder

docker run -v <absolute_path_to_backend>/:/app/ -p 127.0.0.1:8000:8000 <image_id>
```

### Local Production Build

```bash
# From the base project folder: /backend

docker system prune -a --volumes

docker build --target="production-stage" --tag="backend" -f "./Dockerfile" ./

docker images

# Grab the id from the container that was built for backend
# Also, the docker run command seems to want the full path to the rosalution folder

docker run -v <absolute_path_to_backend>/:/app/ -p 127.0.0.1:8000:8000 <image_id>
```

### Endpoints

#### **rosalution Endpoints**

`/analysis`
>
> [http://127.0.0.1:8000/analysis](http://127.0.0.1:8000/analysis)
>
>
>Shows a list of analysis available for rosalution

#### **Test Endpoints**

`/default`

> [http://127.0.0.1:8000/default](http://127.0.0.1:8000/default)
>
>{
> Hello: "World"
>}

## Testing

The backend service uses `pytest` as a testing framework for the Python code. The tests are broken out into unit,
integration, and system tests.

Note: The `-s` flag for the pytest routes the standard out to the console. It allows the `print()` statement to log
output of variables for development purposes.

From the root `./` directory of the project:

Unit Tests:

```bash
pytest -s tests/unit
```

Integration Tests:

```bash
pytest -s tests/integration
```

### Code Coverage

Code coverage is generated by coverage.py using the pytest-cov package.  It was the easiest way to
setup code coverage for unit testing to use pytest-cov and its default configuration, then to
configure coverage.py directly.

The unit tests rely on the .coveragerc file to omit the 'main.py' where the application routes are stored.
'main.py' is tested by integreation tests and not unit tests.

To view an HTML report of coverage, change the option of `--cov-report=term` to `--cov-report=html`.
Read <https://pytest-cov.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html> to learn more about pytest code coverage
tool configuration.

```bash
pytest --cov=src --cov-fail-under=80 --cov-branch --cov-report=term tests/unit/
```
